<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Preface</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="frontmatter">
		<section id="preface" epub:type="preface">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Preface</h2>
			<p>Many friends have helped me in writing this book. Some are dead and so illustrious that I scarcely dare name them, yet no one can read or write without being perpetually in the debt of Defoe, Sir Thomas Browne, Sterne, Sir Walter Scott, Lord Macaulay, Emily Brontë, De Quincey, and Walter Pater⁠—to name the first that come to mind. Others are alive, and though perhaps as illustrious in their own way, are less formidable for that very reason. I am specially indebted to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">C. P.</abbr> Sanger, without whose knowledge of the law of real property this book could never have been written. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sydney-Turner’s wide and peculiar erudition has saved me, I hope, some lamentable blunders. I have had the advantage⁠—how great I alone can estimate⁠—of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Arthur Waley’s knowledge of Chinese. Madame Lopokova (<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">J. M.</abbr> Keynes) has been at hand to correct my Russian. To the unrivalled sympathy and imagination of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Roger Fry I owe whatever understanding of the art of painting I may possess. I have, I hope, profited in another department by the singularly penetrating, if severe, criticism of my nephew <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Julian Bell. Miss <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">M. K.</abbr> Snowdon’s indefatigable researches in the archives of Harrogate and Cheltenham were none the less arduous for being vain. Other friends have helped me in ways too various to specify. I must content myself with naming <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Angus Davidson; <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Cartwright; Miss Janet Case; Lord Berners (whose knowledge of Elizabethan music has proved invaluable); <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Francis Birrell; my brother, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Adrian Stephen; <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">F. L.</abbr> Lucas; <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Desmond MacCarthy; that most inspiriting of critics, my brother-in-law, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clive Bell; <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">G. H.</abbr> Rylands; Lady Colefax; Miss Nellie Boxall; <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">J. M.</abbr> Keynes; <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hugh Walpole; Miss Violet Dickinson; the <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Hon.</abbr> Edward Sackville-West; <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> <abbr>St.</abbr> John Hutchinson; <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Duncan Grant; <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Stephen Tomlin; <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> and Lady Ottoline Morrell; my mother-in-law, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Sidney Woolf; <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Osbert Sitwell; Madame Jacques Raverat; Colonel Cory Bell; Miss Valerie Taylor; <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">J. T.</abbr> Sheppard; <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">T. S.</abbr> Eliot; Miss Ethel Sands; Miss Nan Hudson; my nephew <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Quentin Bell (an old and valued collaborator in fiction); <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Raymond Mortimer; Lady Gerald Wellesley; <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lytton Strachey; the Viscountess Cecil; Miss Hope Mirrlees; <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">E. M.</abbr> Forster; the <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Hon.</abbr> Harold Nicolson; and my sister, Vanessa Bell⁠—but the list threatens to grow too long and is already far too distinguished. For while it rouses in me memories of the pleasantest kind it will inevitably wake expectations in the reader which the book itself can only disappoint. Therefore I will conclude by thanking the officials of the British Museum and Record Office for their wonted courtesy; my niece Miss Angelica Bell, for a service which none but she could have rendered; and my husband for the patience with which he has invariably helped my researches and for the profound historical knowledge to which these pages owe whatever degree of accuracy they may attain. Finally, I would thank, had I not lost his name and address, a gentleman in America, who has generously and gratuitously corrected the punctuation, the botany, the entomology, the geography, and the chronology of previous works of mine and will, I hope, not spare his services on the present occasion.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
